# module_5_challenge

# Disclaimer: The module 5 starter code was used as a template for my analysis.

# Summary: As a new data analyst at Pymaceuticals, Inc., I was tasked with compare the performance of Pymaceuticals’ drug of interest, Capomulin, against the other treatment regimens. For this analysis, the data was produced from 249 mice who were identified to have SCC tumors and received treatment from a range of the drug regimens. The mice' tumors were observed and measured over the course of 45 days. As a starting point, I was able to combine the two datasets (mouse_meta_data.csv and study_results_path.csv) into a single dataset. From there, I cleaned the combined data to drop any duplicate mice data. With the cleaned dataframe, I calculated the mean, median, variance, standard deviation, and standard error for each drug regimen. Following my calculations, I created a bar chart to display the total number of timepoints for all mice tested for each drug regimen. I also created a pie plot displaying the distribution of female vs male mice tested. Then, I calculated the final tumor volume of each mouse for Capomulin, Ramicane, Infubinol, and Ceftamin. With this information, I calculated the IQR and quantitatively determined if there were any potential outliers. I additionally created a box plot to display the distribution of the tumor volume for each treatment group.Next, I generated a line plot to show tumor volume vs timepoint for a sample mouse treated with Capomulin. I generated a scatter plot to show the average tumor volume vs mouse weight for Capomulin. Finally, I generated another scatter plot displaying the average tumor volume vs mouse weight for Capomulin, but I included the correlation coefficent and linear regression.

# Analysis: For the number of mice tested per drug regimen, Capomulin and Ramicane had the largest numbers of timpoints tested; Propriva had the lowest number of timepoints tested. The ratio of femail to male was fairly even with 51% of mice tested being female and 49% of mice tested being male. The distrubtions of Capomulin and Ramicane are less than Infobulin and Ceftamin. The Infomulin data includes an outlier. The average tumor volume and weight shows a positive correlation; as the mouse weight increases, the average tumor volume increases. The correlation coefficient is .84. 